>> Mike North: Let's put this into
practice in a more large-scale way.
This is a very popular pattern that
will apply to our app in order
to radically increase return
visits through time, right?
As soon as the service
worker is activated,
they're not going to have to
go to the outside world for
JavaScript or CSS anymore,
regardless of the HTTP cache.
And this is a technique
that we call pre-caching.
So, let's imagine this as a sort of
a conversation between the cache,
the service worker cache and
the application.
So we begin by providing
the cache with some way
of getting information about
resources we know at build time.
These wouldn't be those
grocery images necessarily,
because as we scale up to a million
groceries, those we'd wanna host on a CDN
somewhere, and we might add a couple
more while the service worker is active.
However, maybe the home screen icons,
we know about those at build time.
We know about the JavaScript we built,
we know about the web app manifest,
things like that.
So those are sort of things that
are part of our application,
they're the things that are in
the dist folder, if you will.
So as part of the install process,
it's gonna go and
download that stuff in advance.
And then, by the time the app asks for
something it's going to return it
immediately without going to
the outside world to get it.
So essentially what this means, is if
you deploy a new version of your app and
you have some logic in place for
pre-caching,
your service worker will be sort of, we'll
call it version one of the app is live.
As you deploy version two of the service
worker and your application,
the service worker is gonna be installed,
right, while version one is still live.
And it's gonna go and
download version two of your JavaScript.
And then, when the user comes
back that will be ready to go.
So, this is a great tradeoff between being
slightly out of date but that's the price
you pay for a nearly instant boot,
because that script is already there.
And these are generally like, you can
focus on the heaviest assets that are part
of your app,
usually it's the script, right?
Or maybe it's like,
have you ever seen these sites that
have a fuzzed up background video?
That is not a trivial amount
of data to go and get that.
And so you might wanna say, we're only
gonna show that on the page, the next
version of that, once we've downloaded
it in the background in advance.
So it's no longer on the critical
path to that page load, right?
You're sort of you're a little bit out of
date showing that old application until
you got you're like ready.
And need of app style like we're
installing the next version, and
then the next time you launch
it you'll be good to go.
>> Speaker 2: And downloading short
video files would be outside of that
6% range for start.
>> Mike North: The 6% range?
>> Speaker 2: I think Steve mentioned-
>> Speaker 3: Chrome budgets you about 6%
of available storage, officially.
>> Mike North: So that can be
a reasonable amount for you to store.
If your video, usually it's gonna
be like a low resolution video, and
you've stripped the audio track away,
you might be able to get that
down to the 11 megabyte mark and
that is gonna be in the range.
Just to give you an idea, IndexedDB,
which we'll talk about later,
you get about 50 megabytes.
Local storage you get
about three megabytes,
although it varies from
browser to browser.
A cookie, you start getting funny looks
from other developers when you start to
approach one megabyte, there's even
a word for them called super cookies and
they're a bad, bad idea.
But, this is in the 50 and up range,
just because that 100% of which we get
6 is not usually a trivial amount.
So it might be like Chrome can
cache half a gigabyte of data,
that's for the HTTP cache and stuff.
And there you've got where
that be 30 megs to work with.
>> Mike North: Steve's put together a
great little demo of using the cache API.
If you have the slides click on this link,
check out the glitch, and
look at in particular the fetch handler.
I'm gonna kick out to that so
we can kinda take a look together.
>> Mike North: So here's the glitch, and
you see it's like Steve likes
the Beatles apparently.
We're using the Beatles image again.
And this is really
the interesting part to look at.
The event respond with right here, so
this as we know, it takes a promise.
And what we're gonna do is, in the event
that we find something in the cash,
right, which means that this, the promise
returned by cashes.match returns,
that promise resolves to
a truthy response, right?
It doesn't resolve the undefined.
We will end up using that response,
otherwise we will fall
back to the network.
And in the install hook,
he's got a list of assets he
knows about at build time, right?
So he's got the style.css, and
client js, and the beetles url,
which is this image that's on a CDN.
So, as part of the install
process this service worker is
guaranteed to go and get the stuff,
put it in the cache, and
by the time it activates,
we know that this cache is populated.
That is the point of having
the ability to use promises and
have this multi-faced life cycle.
The value of that is having a guarantee
that by the time we're in activate,
install has completed successfully.
And if something goes wrong,
like if we hit a four to four here, or for
some reason there's a certificate error,
or whatever,
you will never activate, right?
The old service worker which activated
successfully because it installed
successfully, that will remain in place.
So this is also a safety
issue preventing potentially
a bad worker from being
promoted to the active role.
So this is a nice and
simple example of precaching, right?
And we're going to in the next exercise
do something very similar to this,
the only difference is I've made
it more of a real world scenario.
In that we don't have this
hard coded array here,
because remember we're using
the immutable content caching strategy,
we have this fingerprints in
the name of our JavaScript.
So we actually have to go in our service
worker, fetch a JSON file that has
information about all of the stuff
that we should pre-cache.
And you would do that fetch when
it comes back, use the contents of
that JSON file to then add all of
the things that are appropriate.
And you’ll have to sort
through a little bit cuz, for
example there’s a source map there,
you may not wanna go and precache that.
I mean, there may or
may not be harm to that, we’ll find out.
Does that make sense to everybody?
>> Speaker 4: Will call fetch
on each of the parameters?
>> Mike North: Steve has been alluding
to this, and I just wanna reinforce it.
When we talk about a request,
we can either build a request or
we can use arguments that are passed
to the request constructor.
And in this case, we know that when we
build the request we can pass it to URL,
or we can give it an object
that has a URL property on it.
So this here, we could add something here
like, or I can, I guess I can forget,
but right at this cursor,
I could write new capital R request and
be more deliberate and
explicit about constructing one.
But, think of it as the same
things that you pass to fetch,
you can use here, and
you can use in the request constructor.
They're all sort of representations
of that object, and
the full-fledged object will be created
on the fly for you inside this code.